人生的意義，快樂相隨 
https://twgreatdaily.com/_p6gl3EBnkjnB-0z1UHn.html

我以前認為人生的目標就是追求快樂。人人都說，成功是通往快樂的路，所以我
去尋找理想的工作、完美的男友、漂亮的公寓。但我沒有感到圓滿，反而覺得焦
慮跟漫無目的。而且不是只有我這樣，我的朋友們──他們也有這種困擾。
I used to think the whole purpose of life was pursuing happiness.
Everyone said the path to happiness was success, so I searched for
that ideal job, that perfect boyfriend, that beautiful apartment. But
instead of ever feeling fulfilled, I felt anxious and adrift. And I
wasn't alone; my friends -- they struggled with this, too.

我最後決定去研究所讀正向心理學，去找出什麼能讓人開心。但我在那兒的發現
，改變了我的人生。數據顯示：追求快樂會讓人不快樂。真正讓我震驚的是這點
：全球的自殺率不斷攀升，最近在美國達到三十年來的新高。
Eventually, I decided to go to graduate school for positive
psychology to learn what truly makes people happy. But what I
discovered there changed my life. The data showed that chasing
happiness can make people unhappy. And what really struck me was
this: the suicide rate has been rising around the world, and it
recently reached a 30-year high in America.

雖然客觀來說，生活變好了，從每個能想到的標準來看皆是如此，卻有更多人感
到無助、沮喪、及孤獨，有一種空虛感在侵蝕人們。並不需被臨床診斷出沮喪也
能感覺到這個現象。我想，遲早我們都會想要知道：難道就只能這樣嗎？根據研
究：絕望的原因並不是缺乏快樂，而是缺乏某樣東西，是缺乏人生意義。
Even though life is getting objectively better by nearly every
conceivable standard, more people feel hopeless, depressed and alone.
There's an emptiness gnawing away at people, and you don't have to be
clinically depressed to feel it. Sooner or later, I think we all
wonder: Is this all there is? And according to the research, what
predicts this despair is not a lack of happiness. It's alack of
something else, a lack of having meaning in life.

但這就讓我產生了一些問題。難道人生不只是要快樂嗎？活得快樂和活得有意義
之間有什麼差別？許多心理學家把快樂定義為一種舒服自在的狀態，在當下感覺
很好，而意義則更深層。
But that raised some questions for me. Is there more to life than
being happy? And what's the difference between being happy and having
meaning in life? Many psychologists define happiness as a state of
comfort and ease, feeling good in the moment. Meaning, though, is
deeper.

知名心理學家馬丁賽里格曼說： 意義來自歸屬感、致力於超越自我之外的事物，
以及從內在發展出最好的自己。我們的文化對「快樂」相當痴迷，但我發現，尋
找意義才是更讓人滿足的道路。且研究指出，有人生意義的人適應力也會比較強
，他們在學校及職場的表現較佳，他們甚至活得比較久。
The renowned psychologist Martin Seligman says meaning comes from
belonging to and serving something beyond yourself and from
developing the best within you. Our culture is obsessed with
happiness, but I came to see that seeking meaning is the more
fulfilling path. And the studies show that people who have meaning in
life, they're more resilient, they do better in school and at work,
and they even live longer.

所以這一切讓我開始想，我們每個人要如何活得有意義？為了找出答案，我花了
五年時間，訪談了數百人，閱讀了數千頁的心理學、神經科學、及哲學。把這些
匯整起來，我發現了一件事，我稱之為「人生意義的四大支柱」。我們可以彼此
相互建立起這些支柱，在彼此的人生中找到人生的意義。
So this all made me wonder: How can we each live more meaningfully?
To find out, I spent five years interviewing hundreds of people and
reading through thousands of pages of psychology, neuroscience and
philosophy. Bringing it all together, I found that there are what I
call four pillars of a meaningful life. And we can each create lives
of meaning by building some or all of these pillars in our lives.

第一根支柱是歸屬感。歸屬感來自於一種關係，一種你與他人在本質上彼此是否
處在相互珍惜的關係中。但有些群體或關係，提供的是廉價形式的歸屬感；你被
重視的原因是因為你所相信的事物、你對人的好惡、而不是你的本質。真正的歸
屬感源自於愛。它存在於個體間共處的時光當中，且它是一種選擇──你可以選
擇與他人培養歸屬感。
The first pillar is belonging. Belonging comes from being in
relationships where you're valued for who you are intrinsically and
where you value others as well. But some groups and relationships
deliver a cheap form of belonging; you're valued for what you
believe, for who you hate, not for who you are. True belonging
springs from love. It lives in moments among individuals, and it's a
choice -- you can choose to cultivate belonging with others.

舉例來說，每天早晨，我在紐約的朋友強納森都會向同一個街頭小販買一份報紙
。不過，他們並不是只有交易的關係。他們會停下來，花點時間說說話，把彼此
當朋友對待。但有一次，強納森的零錢不夠，小販說：「沒關係不用了啦。」但
強納森堅持要付錢，所以他去一家店，買了他不需要的東西，把鈔票找開。但當
他把錢給小販時，小販退縮了。他感到受傷。他試著想表現友好，但強納森拒絕
了他。
Here's an example. Each morning, my friend Jonathan buys a newspaper
from the same street vendor in New York. They don't just conduct a
transaction, though. They take a moment to slow down, talk, and treat
each other like humans. But one time, Jonathan didn't have the right
change, and the vendor said, "Don't worry about it." But Jonathan
insisted on paying, so he went to the store and bought something he
didn't need to make change. But when he gave the money to the vendor,
the vendor drew back. He was hurt. He was trying to do something kind,
but Jonathan had rejected him.

我想，我們都曾像這樣在小地方拒絕別人卻沒有意識到。我就有過。我會從認識
的人旁邊走過，卻沒跟他們打招呼。當有人在跟我說話時，我會看手機。這類行
為是在貶低別人的價值，讓他們覺得自己是隱形的、不值得的。但若用愛來引導
，你就會創造出一種聯結，讓你們彼此都振奮起來。
I think we all reject people in small ways like this without
realizing it. I do. I'll walk by someone I know and barely
acknowledge them. I'll check my phone when someone's talking to me.
These acts devalue others. They make them feel invisible and
unworthy. But when you lead with love, you create a bond that lifts
each of you up.

對很多人來說，歸屬感是人生意義的重要來源，就是與家人及朋友之間的聯結。
對其他人來說，第二根人生意義的支柱是目的。找到你的目的並不是指找到讓你
快樂的工作。目的的重點是你能給予什麼，而不是你想要什麼。一位醫院管理員
告訴我，她的目的是治癒生病的人。很多家長告訴我：「我的目的是扶養我的孩
子。」目標的關鍵在於用你的力量去服務他人。
For many people, belonging is the most essential source of meaning,
those bonds to family and friends. For others, the key to meaning is
the second pillar: purpose. Now, finding your purpose is not the same
thing as finding that job that makes you happy. Purpose is less about
what you want than about what you give. A hospital custodian told me
her purpose is healing sick people. Many parents tell me, "My purpose
is raising my children." The key to purpose is using your strengths
to serve others.

當然，對很多人而言，這是透過工作來達成的。那是我們做出貢獻和感到被需要
的方式。但這也意味著，像是無心工作、失業、低勞動參與率等等議題──這些
不僅是經濟問題，也是存在主義問題。人們若沒有值得去做的事，就會掙扎折騰
。當然，你不需要從工作中找到目的，但目的能讓你有活下去的意義，有驅使你
向前行的「理由」。
Of course, for many of us, that happens through work. That's how we
contribute and feel needed. But that also means that issues like
disengage mental work, unemployment, low labor force participation --
these aren't just economic problems, they're existential ones, too.
Without something worth while to do, people flounder. Of course, you
don't have to find purpose at work, but purpose gives you something
to live for, some "why" that drives you forward.

第三根人生意義的支柱，也和走出自我有關，但用的方式完全不同：超然。超然
的狀態是很少見的時刻，在這個時刻中，你超脫了日常生活的喧囂擾攘，自我感
正在漸漸消褪，你會感覺到和更高的現實產生連結。跟我談過的其中一個人說，
超然來自於欣賞藝術。另一個人則認為，超然是在教堂中。
The third pillar of meaning is also about stepping beyond yourself,
but in a completely different way: transcendence. Transcendent states
are those rare moments when you're lifted above the hustle and bustle
of daily life, your sense of self fades away, and you feel connected
to a higher reality. For one person I talked to, transcendence came
from seeing art. For another person, it was at church.

對我來說，我是作家，而超然是透過寫作發生的。有時候我太投入會有一種忘我
的境界。這些超然的經驗能改變你。有一項研究是讓學生去看200英尺高的尤加利
樹，看一分鐘，之後他們會比較不自我中心，若給他們機會去幫助別人，他們連
行為都會變得更慷慨。
For me, I'm a writer, and it happens through writing. Sometimes I get
so in the zone that I lose all sense of time and place. These
transcendent experiences can change you. One study had students look
up at 200-feet-tall eucalyptus trees for one minute. But afterwards
they felt less self-centered, and they even behaved more generously
when given the chance to help someone.

歸屬感、目的、超然。接著談談我發現的第四根支柱，它常會令人感到驚訝。第
四根支柱就是說故事，你告訴你自己關於你自己的故事。用你人生中的事件來創
造一個故事，能讓你看得更清楚。它能協助你了解你是怎麼變成你的。但我們通
常沒發現，我們故事的作者就是自己，且我們可以改變說故事的方式。你的生命
並不只一連串的事件。即便你被事實給限制住，你仍可以編輯、詮釋、再重新述
說你的故事。
Belonging, purpose, transcendence. Now, the fourth pillar of meaning,
I've found, tends to surprise people. The fourth pillar is
storytelling, the story you tell yourself about yourself. Creating a
narrative from the events of your life brings clarity. It helps you
understand how you became you. But we don't always realize that we're
the authors of our stories and can change the way we're telling them.
Your life isn't just a list of events. You can edit, interpret and
retell your story, even as you're constrained by the facts.

我遇到一位叫做埃梅卡的年輕人，他因為打美式足球而癱瘓。埃梅卡在受傷後，
內心的對話是這樣的：「我打美式足球的人生是非常棒的，但看看現在的我。」
像這樣說故事的人──「我的人生曾經很棒，現在卻很糟。」──說這種故事的
人比較容易焦慮和沮喪。埃梅卡有好一陣子就是這樣。但隨時間過去，他開始編
造一個不同的故事。
I met a young man named Emeka, who'd been paralyzed playing football.
After his injury, Emeka told himself, "My life was great playing
football, but now look at me." People who tell stories like this --
"My life was good. Now it's bad." -- tend to be more anxious and
depressed. And that was Emeka for a while. But with time, he started
to weave a different story.

他的新故事是：「在我受傷前，我的人生沒有目的。我常去派對，且我是個很自
私的人。但受傷讓我明白，我可以成為更好的人。」埃梅卡把他的故事進行改造
，從而改變了他的一生。在對自己說完這個新故事之後，埃梅卡開始開導孩童，
他找到了他的目的：服務他人。心理學家丹麥亞當斯稱這現象為「救贖的故事」
，用好的來救贖不好的。他發現，過著有意義人生的人，他們說的故事內容通常
都是他們的人生由救贖、成長、愛來定義。
His new story was, "Before my injury, my life was purposeless. I
partied a lot and was a pretty selfish guy. But my injury made me
realize I could be a better man." That edit to his story changed
Emeka's life. After telling the new story to himself, Emeka started
mentoring kids, and he discovered what his purpose was: serving
others. The psychologist Dan McAdams calls this a "redemptive story,"
where the bad is redeemed by the good. People leading meaningful
lives, he's found, tend to tell stories about their lives defined by
redemption, growth and love.

但，是什麼讓人們改變了他們的故事？有些人向治療師尋求協助，但你也可以靠
自己做到，只要完整地反思你的人生、你的關鍵經驗如何造就了你、你失去了什
麼、獲得了什麼。那就是埃梅卡所做的。你不可能一夜就改變你的故事；過程可
能要花好幾年，且很痛苦。畢竟，我們都曾受過苦，也都在掙扎。但擁抱那些痛
苦的記憶，能帶來新的洞見與智慧，讓你能找到那支撐著你的「善」。
But what makes people change their stories? Some people get help from
a therapist, but you can do it on your own, too, just by reflecting
on your life thoughtfully, how your defining experiences shaped you,
what you lost, what you gained. That's what Emeka did. You won't
change your story overnight; it could take years and be painful.
After all, we've all suffered, and we all struggle. But embracing
those painful memories can lead to new insights and wisdom, to
finding that good that sustains you.

歸屬感、目的、超然、說故事；這些就是意義的四大支柱。在我小時候，我很幸
運能夠被這四根支柱給圍繞著。我父母在蒙特婁的家附近開一間蘇菲派的聚會所
。蘇菲教派是一種和旋轉苦行僧及詩人魯米有關的靈修。每周兩次，蘇菲教徒會
到我們家裡，來冥想、喝波斯茶、分享故事。他們的修行也涉及了要透過愛的小
舉動，來為萬物服務，也就是說，即使別人冤枉你，也要仁慈以對。但那給了他
們一個目的：去駕馭自我。
Belonging, purpose, transcendence,storytelling: those are the four
pillars of meaning. When I was younger, I was lucky enough to be
surrounded by all of the pillars. My parents ran a Sufi meeting house
from our home in Montreal. Sufism is a spiritual practice associated
with the whirling dervishes and the poet Rumi. Twice a week, Sufi
would come to our home to meditate, drink Persian tea, and share
stories. Their practice also involved serving all of creation through
small acts of love, which meant being kind even when people wronged
you. But it gave them a purpose: to rein in the ego.

最後，我離開家去讀大學，我的人生中少了蘇菲教徒每天的基礎練習，感覺像是
船的纜繩被解開。我開始尋找有什麼能讓我的人生值得活。就是這個原因讓我踩
上這段旅程。現在回頭看，我發現那間蘇菲房舍有著一種有意義的真實文化。那
些支柱是建築的一部分，而支柱的出現，讓我們都能過更有深度的生活。
Eventually, I left home for college and without the daily grounding
of Sufism in my life, I felt unmoored. And I started searching for
those things that make life worth living. That's what set me on this
journey. Looking back, I now realize that the Sufi house had a real
culture of meaning. The pillars were part of the architecture, and
the presence of the pillars helped us all live more deeply.

當然，同樣的原則也適用於其他強大的社群──好的和壞的都包含在內。幫派、
邪教：這些也是有意義的文化，它們利用這些支柱，給予人們活著和犧牲的意義
。但那就是為什麼，我們身為一個社會，必須要提供更好的替代方案。我們需要
在我們的家庭及習俗制度當中建立這些支柱，來協助人們變成最好的自己。但一
定要花心力，才能讓人生過得有意義。它是一個持續的過程。隨著每一天過去，
我們不斷地創造我們的人生，擴增我們的故事。有時，我們可能會誤入歧途。
Of course, the same principle applies in other strong communities as
well -- good ones and bad ones. Gangs, cults: these are cultures of
meaning that use the pillars and give people something to live and
die for. But that's exactly why we as a society must offer better
alternatives. We need to build these pillars within our families and
our institutions to help people become their best selves. But living
a meaningful life takes work. It's an ongoing process. As each day
goes by, we're constantly creating our lives, adding to our story.
And sometimes we can get off track.

每當我遇到這狀況時，我會想起我與父親的一段經歷，很有影響力的經歷。我從
大學畢業後幾個月，我父親罹患了嚴重的心臟病，本來他應該性命難保。他活下
來了，我問他，當他在面對死亡時，腦中想著的是什麼，他說，他唯一能想的，
就是必須活下來，這樣他才能陪伴我弟弟和我，這點讓他有意志力能拚命活下來
。當他被麻醉準備接受緊急手術時，他做的不是從10開始倒數，他把我們的名字
像祈禱文般地覆頌。如果他會死，他希望他在世上說的最後幾個字是我們的名字
。
Whenever that happens to me, I remember a powerful experience I had
with my father. Several months after I graduated from college, my dad
had a massive heart attack that should have killed him. He survived,
and when I asked him what was going through his mind as he faced
death, he said all he could think about was needing to live so he
could be there for my brother and me, and this gave him the will to
fight for life. When he went under anesthesia for emergency surgery,
instead of counting backwards from 10, he repeated our names like a
mantra. He wanted our names to be the last words he spoke on earth if
he died.

我的父親是個木匠也是個蘇菲教徒。他的人生是謙恭的人生，但很美好的人生。
躺在那裡，面對死亡，他有一個活下去的理由：愛。他在他的家庭中的歸屬感、
他身為一名父親的目的、他超然的冥想，不斷覆頌我們的名字──他說，這些是
他活下來的原因。那是他告訴他自己的故事。
My dad is a carpenter and a Sufi. It's a humble life, but a good
life. Lying there facing death, he had a reason to live: love. His
sense of belonging within his family, his purpose as a dad, his
transcendent meditation, repeating our names -- these, he says, are
the reasons why he survived. That's the story he tells himself.

那就是意義的力量。快樂來來去去。但當人生真的很美好時，當事情真的很糟糕
時，若人生有意義，你就會有可以緊緊抓住的東西。
That's the power of meaning. Happiness comes and goes. But when life
is really good and when things are really bad,having meaning gives
you something to hold on to.
