The Farmer, His Sons, and the Field
農夫、他的兒子和田地

Once there was a farmer who had four sons. The farmer was a
hard-working man, but his sons were very lazy. As the farmer grew
old, he realized that he had to teach his sons the value of hard work
before he died. So, he took all his money and bought some land. The
land was covered with weeds and full of stones, but the man knew it
would be fertile ground for farming. His sons, however, were angry
because they thought the land was worthless. They complained
bitterly, but their father promised them that he had a good reason
for buying the land.
從前有一個農民，他有四個兒子。農夫是個勤勞的人，但他的兒子們很懶惰。隨
著農民年齡的增長，他意識到他必須在他去世之前教他的兒子們努力工作的價值
。於是，他把所有的錢都買了一塊地。土地上長滿了雜草和石頭，但男人知道這
將是耕作的沃土。然而，他的兒子們很生氣，因為他們認為這片土地一文不值。
他們怨聲載道，但他們的父親向他們保證，他買這片土地是有充分理由的。

Then, when he grew sick and knew he was dying, he summoned his sons
and revealed the secret. "Now, before it is too late, I will tell you
why I bought that land. The goddess Fortuna appeared to me and told
me that in that land there is a treasure chest full of gold, but it
is buried deep within the ground. Just find the buried treasure, and
you will be wealthy for the rest of your lives." With those words,
the old man died.
然後，當他病了，知道自己快要死了，他召集了他的兒子們，揭露了這個秘密。
 “現在，在為時已晚之前，我會告訴你我為什麼購買那片土地。福爾圖娜女神出
現在我面前，告訴我在那片土地上有一個裝滿黃金的寶箱，但它深埋在地下。只
要找到埋藏的寶藏，你的餘生就會變得富有。”說完這句話，老者就死了。

The sons were eager to uncover the treasure, so they started to dig.
They pulled up the weeds and carted away the stones, turning over the
soil to look for the treasure. They worked the ground for many days
until, at last, they understood their father's words: the treasure
was the land itself, made rich by their own hard work. They planted
crops and the harvest was plentiful, and so it was every year, just
as their father had promised.
兒子們急於發現寶藏，所以他們開始挖掘。他們拔掉雜草，運走石頭，翻土尋寶
。他們在地里幹了很多天，終於明白了父親的話：寶地就是土地，靠自己的辛勤
勞動而發財致富。他們種莊稼，收成豐收，年年如此，正如他們父親所承諾的那
樣。

The moral of the story is that hard work pays off, although it is not
always in the way that you expect!
這個故事的寓意是努力工作會有回報，儘管它並不總是像您期望的那樣！
